.TH GP1 1 "October, 1986"
.SH NAME
gp1 \- interactive graphics program for mfe1d data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gp1
file [ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gp1
is a general purpose interactive graphics program used to display
tabulated function data. See
.I mfedat(5)
for a description of the format of its input files.
.PP
.I Gp1
is used interactively on terminals compatible with the Tektronix 4010
or 4014.
It produces hard-copy output on a 22" Versatec electrostatic plotter.
.PP
When
.I gp1
is started, it presents a short summary of its input file(s) on the
screen and displays the prompt
.I 0>.
The user may then enter further commands to the keyboard. If the command
.I draw
is entered at this point,
.I gp1
plots the first component of the first frame and stops
for further commands.
.PP
An input file is conceptually a series of
.I frames.
Each
.I frame
is a matrix, rows and columns of numbers,
the first column of which is assumed to be
x or abscissa values, while the second and
subsequent columns tabulate y or ordinate values.
The number of rows and columns in each frame is
independent of the other frames in the file.
.PP
.B "Keyboard Commands"
.ne 8
.PP
In the following discussion, optional arguments are shown enclosed in
square brackets, [ \fIarg\fP ]; characters which must appear literally are
shown in single quotes, '\fIx\fP'.
Commands are normally terminated with a 
newline, or several commands may be strung together separated with
semi-colons. Any command may be abbreviated by using an unambiguous
prefix of the command word(s). If a numeric argument is required, the
notation \fII_num\fP indicates that an integer argument is expected;
the notation \fIF_num\fP indicates a floating point argument.
.PP
.IP "[ \fBframe\fP ] \fIframe_list\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBcomp\fP \fIcomp_list\fP"
Designate the frames mentioned in the
.I framelist
as the frames to be used in further drawing operations.
A
.I framelist
is an enumerated list of frame numbers,
or an interval of frame numbers,
or a combination.
Similarly, the
.I comp
command designates a set of components to become active;
the
.I comp_list
is similar in form to the
.I frame_list.
.IP "\fB\'+\'\fP or \fB\\'-\'\fP"
.br
Increment or decrement the frame number(s) by one, respectively.
.IP "\fBdraw\fP"
.br
Draw the screen over, incorporating all the commands entered
since the screen was last drawn. Note that the screen is only
re-drawn when this command is executed.
.IP "\fBsummary\fP"
Sends a tabulation of frame titles to the
screen. This command is automatically executed upon initialization
of \fIgp1\fP.
.IP "\fBplot\fP"
.br
Send the current picture specification to the current plotfile.
.IP "\fBformat\fP \fII_num\fP"
Change to the given format number.
(This applies to the hard-copy plots,
not the interactive video screen.)
.I Gp1 
recognizes five formats:
format 1 by default is an 8.5 by 11 inch page, format 2
is 11 by 15 inches, and format 3 is 22 by 26 inches.
In June, 1988 format 4 and 5 were added.
Format 4 is a portrait mode 8.5 by 11 inch laserwriter page,
and format 5 is landscape mode.
Format 4 is the new default.
.IP "\fBsize\fP \fIF_num\fP"
Change the default size of the current format. To be more exact, this
command sets the size, in inches, of the square viewport
(hard-copy only)
in which plotting takes place. The default
.I size
for format 1 is 7 inches, for format 2, 10 inches, and format 3 is
21 inches square.
Format 4 defaults to 7 inches,
and 5 to 7.5 inches.
.IP \fBI_num>\fP
All the parameters of the current picture specifier are stored in a
structure called (for lack of a more descriptive term) a "screen".
There are four screens available to the user, numbered "0" through
"3". The current screen is displayed as part of the prompt. This
feature allows a complicated view to be stored temporarily and
returned to later by simply changing screens.
.IP "\fBfile\fP \fInew_file_name(s)\fP"
Re-initialize
.I gp1
using the
.I new_file(s)
for input. Starts a new plotfile for plotted data.
.IP "\fBcomp\fP \fII_num\fP [ : ]  \fInodetype\fP"
The node symbols for the designated component number
are set to the designated
.I nodetype,
which can be
.I diamond,
.I square,
or
.I triangle.
The default symbol is
.I diamond.
.IP "\fBcomp\fP \fII_num\fP [ : ] \fBshift\fP  \fIF_num\fP [ , ] \fIF_num\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBframe\fP \fII_num\fP [ : ] \fBshift\fP  \fIF_num\fP [ , ] \fIF_num\fP"
The designated component or frame
is shifted relative to other components or frames
by the given amounts in
.I x
and
.I y,
respectively.
.IP "\fBnodes on\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBnodes off\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBlabels on\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBlabels off\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBxp on\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBxp off\fP"
.br
Turn on or off the rendering of node symbols
or axis labels
in plotted pictures.
The command
.I xp on
selects
.I expert
mode; textual information is not included in
the plotted picture.
.IP "\fBx\fP [ : ] [ \fIF_num\fP [ \fBto\fP \fIF_num\fP ]"
.ns
.IP "\fBy\fP [ : ] [ \fIF_num\fP [ \fBto\fP \fIF_num\fP ]"
.ns
.IP "\fBx\fP [ : ] \fBauto\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBy\fP [ : ] \fBauto\fP"
.br
Reset the limits of the x-axis or y-axis, respectively.
The first argument sets the left or lower bound,
while the second argument sets the right or upper bound.
Either or both arguments may be entered.
Normally, these limits are automatically computed.
Entering a command of the first two forms turns off the automatic
computation.
To restore automatic scaling, use one of the last two forms given.
(An asterisk
may be substituted for the word
.I auto.)
.SH FILES
plotXXXXXX.pf \ \ output from "plot" commands if "PIPEPLOT"
option is selected in gp1.src/switches.h.
.br
pl?XXXXXX.apf \ \ output from "plot" commands if "FILEPLOT"
option is selected in gp1.src/switches.h.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gp2(1), sendplot(1), mfedat(5), gplot1(1).
.SH AUTHOR
Lee Busby, U.C. Berkeley Math Dept., October, 1986.
Revisions May and June, 1988.
.SH "BUGS AND LIMITATIONS"
250 frames total in all files, no more than 100 components per frame,
no more than 1000 rows (x-values) per frame, no more than 20 files open
at one time, frame titles are limited to 80 characters.
Should be able to use different node symbols for different frames,
but can't.
