.TH ADDCOL 1 "Sept. 29, 1986"
.SH NAME
addcol \- add a new column (z-value) to an mfe2d binary file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B addcol
< \fIoldfile\fP > \fInewfile\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Addcol
provides a somewhat clumsy means to compute and store a new z-value as a
function of x,y, and the existing z-values in an mfe2d binary data file.
It must be re-compiled for each new function, using source code for the 
new function provided by the user.
It then is used as a simple filter, reading an mfe2d binary file from stdin
and writing the same file with an added column onto stdout.
.PP
To prepare a new function, locate the main directory. (see FILES).
An example function is provided by the file "template.c"; copy this file
into the working current function file, named "currfunc.c". Modify 
"currfunc.c" so that newfunc() returns the desired value, and change the
character string "funcdesc" to reflect the description of the new z-value.
The arguments provided to newfunc() are as follows:
.DS
x: the x-value at the current node
y: the y-value at the current node
z: an array of z-values at the current node

.DE
The z-value array is indexed from 1 through \fIn\fP,
where \fIn\fP is the number of z-values
currently in the file.
A makefile is provided to compile and install the new version of
.I addcol.
After modifying "currfunc.c", simply run the command sequence
.DS
make;make install

.DE
to complete the modification.
.SH FILES
~/addcolumn is the main directory for this utility.
.br
~/addcolumn/addcol.c is the primary source code.
.br
~/addcolumn/template.c provides an example function, while
.br
~/addcolumn/currfunc.c is the current function source code.
.SH AUTHOR
Lee Busby, U.C. Berkeley Math Dept., December, 1985
