.TH CATS 1 "Oct. 15, 1986"
.SH NAME
cats \- catenate selected frames from mfe1d and mfe2d (binary) data files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cats
[ \fIframelist\fP ] file [ file ... ] > newfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cats
catenates selected frames from one or more mfe data files
and places the result on its standard output.
(All the files must be either 1D or 2D, of course.)
The
.I framelist
is a blank-separated list of frame numbers,
or ranges of the form "\fIn\-m\fP".
If no
.I framelist
is given, then all frames are written to the output.
Frames are assumed to be numbered consecutively from
the first frame of the first file given to the last
frame of the last file given.
If the file list is mfe2d type, then the number of nodes, edges, cells, and
z-values is checked in successive files to verify that they are the same.
The edge-list and cell-list are taken from the first file given.
Note that the output of
.I cats
will usually be re-directed,
as it is not ascii in the 2D case.
.SH EXAMPLES
The first example creates "file3" as the concatenation of "file1" and "file2".
The second example selects frames 1,2,7,8,9, and 10 from "oldfile" and places
the result in "newfile", while the third example is just a slower version of
cat(1).
.DS
\fBcats\fP file1 file2 > file3
\fBcats\fP 1 2 7-10 oldfile > newfile
\fBcats\fP any_ascii_file

.DE
.SH FILES
/tmp/cats1XXXXXX	(concatenated file arguments)
.br
/tmp/cats2XXXXXX	(created only if a framelist is entered)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns exit status 1 for unforgiveable errors, 0 otherwise.
Unforgiveable errors include non-existent files and unintelligible
.I framelists.
Forgiveable errors include duplicated values in the
.I framelist
or values
which are too large or small - these are noted and ignored.
.SH AUTHOR
Lee Busby, U.C. Berkeley Math Dept., October, 1986
.SH "BUGS AND LIMITATIONS"
Maximum total frames is 500;
maximum 50 file arguments or framelist entries.
Mfe2d ascii files will be treated as if they were mfe1d files,
with undoubtably incorrect results.
Each argument is checked first to see if it is a filename in the current
directory, then to see if it is numeric, so it's best not to use
file names which are just numbers.
