.TH GP2 1 "October, 1986"
.SH NAME
gp2 \- interactive graphics program for mfe2d data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gp2
mfefile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Gp2
is a special purpose interactive graphics program used to analyze and
display mfe2d data. It could in principle be used to help visualize or
display any piecewise-planar surface, so long as the input file conformed
to a rather specific set of rules. (See \fImfedat\fP(5).)
.PP
.I Gp2
is used interactively on terminals compatible with the Tektronix 4010
or 4014.
It produces hard-copy output on a 22" Versatec electrostatic plotter.
.PP
Briefly, the user enters keyboard commands to create
.I
grid views, contour plots, vector field plots,
or
.I
cross section plots.
There is a window facility which allows the user to select
and magnify any small portion of the surface being viewed.
.PP
An mfe2d data file consists in essence of a topological description
of the grid followed by a sequence of
.I frames,
numbered starting with "1".
Each
.I frame
is basically just a listing of x,y, and one or more z values at each
node in the grid, representing the function or surface at a
particular instant in time.
The user enters commands at the keyboard to select a particular frame
and type of view; occasionally (s)he re-draws the screen to show the
changes made since the screen was last drawn.
.PP
When
.I gp2
is started, it presents a short summary of its input file on the
screen and displays the prompt
.I 0>.
The user may then enter further commands to the keyboard. If the command
.I draw
is entered at this point,
.I gp2
displays a
.I "grid view"
(orthogonal projection of the grid onto the x-y plane)
of frame number 1.
.PP
.B "Keyboard Commands"
.ne 8
.PP
In the following discussion, optional arguments are shown enclosed in
square brackets, [ \fIarg\fP ]; characters which must appear literally are
shown in single quotes, '\fIx\fP'.
Commands are normally terminated with a 
newline, or several commands may be strung together separated with
semi-colons. Any command may be abbreviated by using an unambiguous
prefix of the command word(s). If a numeric argument is required, the
notation \fII_num\fP indicates that an integer argument is expected;
the notation \fIF_num\fP indicates a floating point argument.
.PP
.IP \fBI_num\fP
Change to the given frame number.
.IP "\fB\'+\'\fP or \fB\\'-\'\fP"
.br
Increment or decrement the frame number by one, respectively.
.IP \fBdraw\fP
.br
Redraw the screen, incorporating all the commands entered
since the screen was last drawn. Note that the screen is only
re-drawn when this command is explicitly entered.
.IP "\fBshow grid\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBdot grid\fP"
.ns
.IP "\fBno grid\fP"
.br
Display the grid edges using solid lines, dotted lines, or invisible
lines, respectively.
.IP "\fBshow times\fP"
Sends a tabulation of frame numbers and problem times to the
screen. This command is automatically executed upon initialization
of
.I gp2.
.IP "\fBplot\fP [ \fIframeseq\fP ]"
Send the entered sequence of frames to the current plotfile, or if
no
.I frameseq
was entered, send the current frame. A
.I frameseq
is an enumerated list of frames, or an interval, or both.
For example,
.sp 1
.B plot
2 5 7-10
.sp 1
sends frames 2,5,7,8,9,and 10 to the plotfile.
.IP "\fBformat\fP \fII_num\fP"
Change to the given format number.
(This applies to hard-copy plots,
not to the interactive video screen.)
.I Gp2 
recognizes three formats:
format 1 by default is an 8.5 by 11 inch page, format 2
is 11 by 15 inches, and format 3 is 22 by 26 inches.
In June, 1988 format 4 (the new default) and 5 were added.
Format 4 is a portrait mode laserwriter page
and format 5 is a landscape page for that device.
.IP "\fBsize\fP \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Change the default size of the current format. To be more exact, this
command sets the size, in inches, of the square viewport
on the hard-copy device
on which plotting takes place. The default
.I size
for format 1 is 7 inches, for format 2, 10 inches, and format 3 is
21 inches square.
Format 4 defaults to 7 inches,
format 5 to 7.5 inches.
.IP \fBI_num>\fP
.br
All the parameters of the current picture specifier are stored in a
structure called (for lack of a more descriptive term) a "screen".
There are four screens available to the user, numbered "0" through
"3". The current screen is displayed as part of the prompt. This
feature allows a complicated view to be stored temporarily and
returned to later by simply changing screens.
.IP "\fBfile\fP \fInew_file_name\fP"
.br
Re-initialize
.I gp2
using the
.I new_file
for input. Starts a new plotfile for plotted data.
.IP "\fBxsect\fP [ \fII_num\fP ] [ \fI'*' I_num\fP ]"
.ns
.IP "\fBqxsect\fP [ \fII_num\fP ] [ \fI'*' I_num\fP ]"
.br
Turn on cross section plotting in the current window. If a
.I draw
command is issued at this point, a
.I plan view
showing the location of cross section slices on the x-y plane
will be drawn. The first optional argument selects a
.I z-value.
(Recall that an mfe solution file typically contains x, y,
and several z-values at each node. Each set of x,y,z triples
defines a different surface.) The second optional argument
selects the number of cross section slices. (default 50).
The alternate form of the command affects the manner in which
drawing takes place after a subsequent
.I open
command.
Specifically, the
.I qxsect
command
("quick" cross sections)
displays only the grid edges for preliminary viewing of the projected
surface.
.IP "\fBno xsect\fP"
.br
Turns off the cross section plotting routine.
.IP "\fBshear\fP [ \fIF_num\fP  [ ,\fIF_num\fP ] ]"
.br
Shears the successive cross sections in a multiple cross
section view by the given percentage of cross section width
and original z-range. At least one of the arguments must be
entered: the first argument specifies lateral shear and the 
second specifies vertical shear. The default value is initially
50 percent. A view with positive lateral and vertical shear is 
"stretched out" left to right and bottom to top as you progress
from the "near" section to the "far"section.
.IP "\fBzrange\fP \fIF_num\fP : \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Sets the z-range of the displayed cross section
data to the given lower and upper limits.
The z-range is set before any non-zero vertical shear
is applied.
To reset automatic scaling, enter \fIzrange *\fP.
.IP \fBxslice\fP
.ns
.IP \fByslice\fP
.br
Take cross sections parallel to the x-axis or to the y-axis,
respectively.
.I Xslice
is the default;
.I yslice
is similar in effect to rotating the current window by 90
degrees counter-clockwise.
.IP \fBopen\fP[!]
.br
This command has several functions. If a cross section
.I plan view
has been initialized, then it will be "opened" to show the
.I elevation view.
Otherwise, if a pending window is currently showing, that
window and its contents are expanded to fill the entire
viewport.
If neither a cross section plan view nor pending window is
currently active, then a pending window is placed at the
center of the viewport, with height and width equal to 1/2
of the viewport. Windows may be opened recursively to a
total depth of ten windows.
The optional exclamation point opens the window highest in
the stack opened by the last series of
.I open
commands.
.IP \fBclose\fP[!]
.br
Generally reverses the action of
.I open.
.IP "\fBmabs\fP [ \fIF_num\fP [ , \fIF_num\fP ] ]"
.br
Move the window to the given absolute coordinates.
If there is a pending window, move that window, otherwise,
move the current window. Note that this command and the following
commands which affect window size and placement operate only
on windows above level 0, the original window on the entire
problem domain.
This means that at least one
.I open
command must be given before
.I mabs
and the others will have an effect.
.br
The point being moved is the center of the window.
You may move the window center to any point inside or on the
boundary of the viewport. The lower left corner of the viewport
has virtual coordinates (0,0); the upper right corner is
(100,100).
The optional arguments to
.I mabs
define the x and y coordinates of the move, respectively.
If no arguments, then
the window is moved to the center of the viewport.
A missing argument is supplied by the last entered value.
.IP "\fBmrel\fP [ \fIF_num\fP [ ,\fIF_num\fP ] ]"
.br
Move the window relative to its current position and orientation. That is,
the window is shifted parallel to itself laterally and vertically,
taking account of any tilt away from the normal position.
Any missing arguments are supplied by the last value entered.
.IP "\fBangle\fP [ = ] \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Tilt the window by the given angular argument, in degrees. Tilt is 
cumulative if windows are opened inside of windows.
.IP "\fBheight\fP [ = ] \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Set the window height to the given height value. Note that the value can
be greater than 100, which has the effect of shrinking the domain within
the viewport. This feature is useful if a vector field which extends away
from the domain boundary is being drawn.
.IP "\fBwidth\fP [ = ] \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Set the window width.
.IP "\fBhw\fP [ = ] \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Sets height and width together, so that the window remains square.
.IP "\fBcontour\fP [ \fII_num\fP ]"
.ns
.IP "\fBdot contour\fP [ \fII_num\fP ]"
.ns
.IP "\fBno cont\fP"
.br
Select the given z-index for contouring. The z-index defaults to 1 at first,
and thereafter defaults to the last selected z-index. Contours are drawn
with solid or dotted lines, respectively.
.I "No cont"
turns off contouring.
.IP "\fBinterval\fP  [ = ] \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Set the contour interval to the given value. Contour intervals are set
initially so that about 10 contour lines appear between z-minimum and
z-maximum. Thereafter, the interval is changed only by using this 
command.
.IP "\fBoffset\fP [ = ] \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Move all the contour planes up or down according to whether argument
is positive or negative. Default value is zero.
.IP "\fBvector\fP [ \fII_num\fP , \fII_num\fP ] [ \fI'*' I_num\fP ]"
.br
Turn on vector field.
The first argument selects the vector
component parallel to the x-axis from among the available z-indices,
and the second argument selects the component parallel to the y-axis.
They default to "1" and "2", respectively.
After the first use of the command, missing values 
default to the last previous entry. The last argument selects the
size of the grid on which to draw the vector field. For example,
if gridsize = 10, the field is drawn on a 10x10 grid.
.IP "\fBno vector\fP"
.br
Turn off the vector field.
.IP "\fBlength\fP [ = ] \fIF_num\fP"
.br
Set the length of the maximum vector on the domain.
The unit of measure
is the current gridsize.
This means that the absolute length of vectors
changes as gridsize is changed.
.SH FILES
plotXXXXXX.pf \ \ output from "plot" commands
.SH "SEE ALSO"
gp1(1), sendplot(1), gpp(1), cats(1), mfedat(5), gplot2(1)
and the program "GWMFE2DS" written by N.N. Carlson.
.SH AUTHOR
Lee Busby, U.C. Berkeley Math Dept., original version was completed
July, 1985, revised October, 1986 and again May, June, 1988.
.SH BUGS
The cross-section drawing routine will on occasion produce
incorrect results,
if the corner of a small window falls in the
middle of a very steep cell.
Moving the window slightly is usually sufficient
to correct the problem.
